[Musical ringtone]
In Maryland today,
voters will have some
important decisions to make.
—Marylanders will go to
the polls to not only decide
the next president,
but also a number
of key issues
concerning our state.
—One of those ballot issues
is Question 6.
It's a controversial one.
—Local voters will decide
whether to approve a bill
to legalize
same—sex marriage.
—If it passes,
it's going to make history.
MITT ROMNEY: Do you want
four more years
like the last four years?
—CROWD: No!
Or do you want real change?
—Yesl
It's going to change,
all right, ha.
Campaign organizers
think Romney will continue
the push for
last—minute votes.
—African American voters
are going to be
extremely important
in this election,
many of whom
are devout Christians
who may be inclined not
to vote for same—sex marriage
because of messages
from their churches
that they should oppose it —-
[Switches radio off]
This is information
on traditional marriage.
And I am —-
—What is traditional marriage’?
One man, one woman.
—Based on whose tradition’?
—LGBT rights is in its
revolutionary phase right now.
It's frightening for some;
it's revolutionary
for others.
But what does that mean
for black people
who happen to be LGBT’?
Yes to Question 6!
Equality —-
—My quest
in black LGBT equality
is about black folks
rising up.
It is my people.
I'm a sistah in the movement.
And that's sistah,
s—i—s—t—a—h.
Let's be clear.
"This is the unfinished business
of black people being free."
[Cheering]
Hello, Chicago!
[Cheering intensifies]
If there is anyone
out there
who still doubts that
America is a place where
all things
are possible...
tonight is your answer.
[Cheering]
—The night
of the general election,
when we all witnessed
the first black man
get elected
as the president
of the United States,
l was watching the TV
and I got a phone call
and they said
Proposition 8 passed.
It was the most controversial
state issue on the ballot.
You know I'm talking
about Proposition number 8,
the constitutional amendment
that eliminates the rights
of same—sex couples
to marry.
It appears now
the measure has passed.
I am still married
to Diane today.
I do not want the word
"domestic partnership";
we want the word
"marriage".
—Within 24 hours,
they blamed it on black
people for passing.
They're convinced they're
all riding the same bus
and they, too,
won't sit in the back.
I am disappointed in the
African American community,
but hopeful that
they will revisit it
and see us also as
a civil rights movement.
—l was on the front lines
in California,
fighting against
Proposition 8 and,
a few days later, my phone
started ringing more,
to say "How could you
let this happen?"
And I was like
"Excuse me’?
Are you trying
to blame me
for the passage of
Proposition 8'?"
—It was a very
divisive campaign.
Millions of dollars
came into that campaign
from the Mormon church
and from the Catholic
and evangelical churches
to reach out
with great effort
to communities of color.
Those in favor of Proposition 8
aggressively reached out
to African American clergy,
where the LGBT community
driving this issue
to defeat Proposition 8
did not.
One of the missteps
of the campaign
was the assumption made
by the gay community
that, by framing marriage
equality as a civil right,
that, automatically,
the African American community
would overwhelmingly
support it.
But the black community
is not monolithic.
We're just like
any other community.
To make that assumption was,
I think,
a critical error
in strategy.
—Define "marriage".
l believe
that marriage is
the union between
a man and a woman.
[Applause]
—Now, for me, as a Christian —-
For me —-
[Applause]
For me, as a Christian,
it's also a sacred union.
You know, God's
in the mix.
[Applause]
—Any discussion
or dialogue about the
legitimacy or credibility
of marriage equality
for the LGBT community
was framed purely
within a religious context,
which did not allow for
a reasonable discussion about
civil rights being an issue.
—The black church,
in many ways,
is the epicenter
to the black community.
It is what spirituality is
to a lot of people.
But there is a systemic
occurrence of homophobia
within the black church.
But what does that mean
for black people
who happen to be LGBT’?
With the repeal of "Don't Ask,
Don't Tell" for the military,
we're ready to repeal
"Don't Ask, Don't Tell"
in the black community.
Hey, Mom.
—Yeah, hey.
You riding —— bike’?
—Huh?
Mwah. Where's Marquis’?
—Still there.
He has no coat on.
—Uh—huh.
Oh, my goodness.
—It's cold out here.
[Laughs]
—My name is Irene Huskens
and I'm a captain
for a police department
in Prince George's County.
My mother's white,
she's from the Netherlands;
and my dad is black.
That was not an issue
in our household, you know’?
I wasn't raised with
a white mom and a black dad.
l was raised
with my mom and dad.
Okay. That looks
good, already.
As far as coming out
to my family,
it was really uneventful.
I'll never forget.
I went to Rehoboth Beach
with my first girlfriend.
We came back and we're
sitting in the kitchen.
My mom and l are
in the kitchen, talking,
having a cup of coffee,
and I said "Mom,
you know I went to Rehoboth
with Micki."
And she said "Yes."
And I said "You know
I went with Micki."
She said, "Yes."
I said, "You know
I'm with Micki."
And she says ”Wicht” —-
Wicht is Dutch for "child".
”Wicht, whatever
makes you happy."
And that was
the extent of it.
l was waiting for that person
who makes my heart flutter
and who makes me just so excited
and I can't wait to see them
and I'd never
experienced that.
[Laughter]
—Aw, shucks.
We met, it was
Ahhh
Yeah, it really was.
Leia has two children
that she adopted,
Candace and Marquis,
and they love me so much.
I've never experienced that,
the way that they love me.
That's really —-
I can't believe
I'm getting teary—eyed
over that.
Yeah.
Marquis had asked "When are you
and Mama getting married?"
"Well, we're working on it.
We're working on it."
Why can't it just be the way
it is for everyone else’?
Why wouldn't you want
my children
to have the same rights
and benefits
and whatever else
comes with marriage
than yours’?
Equality
never hurt anyone.
Today, I address you
not only as a Marylander
and a United States
Air Force veteran,
but also as a law
enforcement professional
who has proudly
and honorably served
the citizens of our community
for more than 17 years.
Despite my service
to my country,
my state, and my community,
I am not afforded the same
fair, just, and
discrimination—free rights.
I believe that Maryland
should join the growing number
of progressive states
that afford equal rights
to all of its citizens
and I believe that
it should be sooner,
rather than later.
Please support Senate Bill 241.
Thank you.
—Thank you, Captain.
11 News continues to monitor
our big story tonight,
history in the making
in the state of Maryland.
Within the last 20 minutes
or so, Governor Martin O'Malley
signed the same—sex
marriage bill into law.
[Cheering]
All of us,
at the end of the day,
want the same thing
for our children:
we want them to live
in a loving, caring,
and committed home
that is protected equally
under the law.
[Cheering]
KOJO NNAMDI: The Maryland House
of Delegates passed a bill
that would legalize
same—sex marriage
by a vote of 72-67,
but many people
in the state's
religious community,
especially in
African American churches,
still oppose gay marriage
and are filing to continue
their fight against it.
Opponents say their best hope
for stopping same—sex marriage
is a statewide referendum.
Woman and woman
and man and man.
—I'm the chairman of the
Maryland Marriage Alliance,
which is a singular group,
focused completely
on the marriage issue
and the "marriage" definition
in the state of Maryland.
When we saw that marriage
and the definition of "marriage"
was beginning to be assaulted,
we began saying
"Oh, we need to do
something about it."
Come on over and sign
that petition.
The Bible's very clear:
marriage came from scripture.
It's a unique relationship
between a man and a woman
that God establishes
and he defined
and I don't get
to redefine.
—It's a signature.
Our deal is not to put a stop
on somebody's love.
People can choose to live
however they want to live.
What we're saying is they
just don't have the right
to redefine marriage
for everybody.
Tonight, the 11 News I—Team
discovered that
most of the money
for the petition drive
came from out—of—state
and that one of
the biggest donors
is pushing a strategy
to drive a wedge
between gays
and African Americans.
—A recently unsealed federal
court document states...
This is a strategy recommended
by the petition drive’s
biggest contributor:
the National Organization
for Marriage.
Yeah, I heard about the
documents that were released
on the National
Organization for Marriage
and talk about
a wedge strategy.
Guess what —-
African Americans were around
a long time before NOM was.
Doesn't take any outside group
to try and tell them
or structure
what their beliefs are.
Their beliefs
are their beliefs.
They've been that way
for many years.
They're a singIe—focus
organization that's trying
to rally around one issue,
in the issue of marriage,
and, you know, kudos for them
to work on a strategy.
I would not want to work
with a group
that doesn't have a strategy,
doesn't have a plan.
Many people partner with NOM
and they're a strong group.
Like this?
—Ah, yeah.
I can't see.
—Let me show you, baby.
Lord, these children today.
[Laughs]
You have to mount it
and then you stick it in,
then you bring it back out.
Stick it in the hole.
Right. Right.
And then you mount it
together.
[Hammering]
That it’?
—You want to get this on
the hook, not on the nail.
[Musical ringtone]
After Prop 8,
it was like
a souI—searching
experience for me.
I had this yearning
to really understand
whether we saw ourselves
black, first,
black and LGBT,
or did we understand the
construct of dual oppression.
And, by October 2009,
I found myself
as the executive director
and chief executive officer
of the National
Black Justice Coalition.
—You have a call
from the White House.
Uh...okay.
—Okay, I'll transfer you.
Yeah, transfer me in,
please.
All right, I'ma
call you right back.
I need to take this call.
Maryland is going to play out
in a way that will, hopefully,
correct the wrongs
of California,
but that's yet to be seen.
The reality is
that the far right,
as well as the
African American leadership
that they've been able
to amass,
is going to do
what they do.
They've been doing it
all over the country.
And they go in the pulpit
and they use the pulpit
as a space of hate
to undermine
people's rights.
—The strategy of the right
has always been
a strategy of fear.
Not only produce fear,
but to use it skillfully
to get people of color
to cross over
and become a part
of the radical right.
It has happened to us over
and over and over again.
Cincinnati City Council
voted 7-2
to pass what was called
the Human Rights Ordinance.
The purpose of this ordinance
was to elevate
one’s sexual preference
to protected—class status.
But many local citizens
were outraged,
including...
The Human Rights Ordinance
that was passed
in November of 1992
basically said that
you cannot discriminate
based on housing or jobs.
It just mirrored what
the 1964 Civil Rights Act did.
We drafted legislation
that would change
the city charter,
that said you cannot
pass any laws
based on
sexual orientation.
We had to collect signatures
to put it on the ballot,
so, obviously, those were
circulated in the churches
and it was amazing,
the support we got from the
African American community,
even Fred Shuttlesworth.
He was considered one
of the big three
and he lived herein Cincinnati
and he wanted to help us.
I know quite a few things
about fighting
discrimination.
Cincinnati Issue 3
is not about discrimination.
This was probably
the highwater mark
for the African American
community
and the evangelical
white community,
to work together
on an issue.
The biggest tool
we had was
KZ Smith.
—Last November,
the voters came out
and 62% asked to repeal
our Human Rights Ordinance.
—And that 62%
against an ordinance
which would have specifically
protected homosexuals —-
—Understand —-
Was voted significantly so
by the black community,
is that not so’?
What black people need
to understand is that
gays are trying to become
the new minority.
And, if blacks don't wake up,
they'll be back
on the back
of the bus again.
It was, to me, in my mind,
trying to legitimize
the gay lifestyle.
I was the president of the
Baptist Ministers‘ Conference,
at the time.
A group of people had come
to me, asking if I would be
the spokesperson for it.
What troubles me is
that people can't believe
that we actually stood up
for what we believed.
They think that
we were motivated
by the religious right,
that we were motivated
by rich white people coming
into the community
and telling us what to believe
and what to stand up for,
versus us thinking
for ourselves
and believing for ourselves.
I believed that
homosexuality was wrong
before I met a Phil Burress
or anybody else.
We knew that, if we
could get the message out
that the African Americans
were offended by this —-
not me,
not the white folk.
It was too easy
to pigeonhole us
and saying
we're just hatemongers,
but when an African American got
up and delivered the message,
they didn't touch them.
They didn't say a word about
them. They were afraid of them.
That's the reason why
we got sexual immorality.
That's the reason why there's
a rise in the gay agenda.
—You can be converted!
You were not born that way!
The black church,
to this day,
remains fundamentally
conservative.
You know, we preached
against smoking
and drinking and drugging,
and even movies.
The gay thing is something
the black church has not quite
been able to grapple with.
We think it's
a white man's disease
and it was contagious
[chuckling] and it got
on us, you know’?
Well, I was already
a part of
the evangelical fundamentalist
Pentecostal movement
for generations.
I stayed in those trenches,
almost until I was 50 years old.
I'm in a miracle mood.
I'm in a healing mood.
I knew that white people
were using their influence
to buy my influence
with the black church
to advance their
antigay agenda
and we bought into it.
—Our nation is grateful.
There are a few
prominent leaders
who have a voice
in the media,
who have been
influenced and embraced
by nonblack
fundamentalist entities,
funded, encouraged,
given positions of
leadership and prominence
in the political
and religious circles,
and they're made
into voices of influence.
—We may face an America,
in 10 years,
where the problems that are
in the black community
are in every community
in the land.
We don't want an America
like that.
WOMAN: Yeahl Whool
We helped bring together black,
white, and Hispanic groups
that already agreed
in principle with each other.
So we just went
into various cities
and connected major players
with each other,
got them talking
the same language,
and then released them
to do their work.
—Americans
remain committed
to the historic
definition of "marriage"
as the "union between
one man and one woman".
That hasn't stopped
a handful of unelected,
unaccountable judges
from trying to force
their counterfeit version
of marriage on the nation.
[Cheering]
[chanting]
No same—sex marriage!
No same—sex
marriage!
No same—sex marriage!
No same—sex
marriage!
No same—sex marriage!
No same—sex
marriage!
No same—sex marriage!
No same—sex
marriage!
Phew. I look at this,
I look at a big task.
I know Prince George's County
like the back of my hand.
Baltimore City, we're in
just about every day.
The black community is
the southern central region,
which is all,
you know,
Baltimore City on down.
Wife and kids are absolutely
supportive of all of this.
I mean, they believe in it.
They understand it.
We have a lot of dialogue.
We've had questions.
I mean, they asked me,
said "Well, Daddy,
why don't you just let it go?"
Or, you know,
"People should live the way
they should, right?"
I said "Well,
think about it."
So I try and challenge
them to think.
You know, if you're
going to be the person
that gets a news clip and thinks
2 to 3 minutes about this
and says "Oh, equality sounds
fair. I guess I'll do it,"
great, your mind's
going to be changed.
But if you think past
that 5 or 10 minutes
and start looking
at society at large
and look at many
other factors,
you might have a different
thought process on it.
[Laughs]
Baltimore County.
—22,000 Montgomery people
signed this petition.
We're really proud of that.
—Uh—oh, I said 20,000.
[Laughter]
We are turning in
over 162,435
signatures.
Now, same—sex marriage
is going to be put to vote
herein Maryland.
The Maryland Marriage Alliance
announced it submitted
more than twice
the number needed
to take this number
to referendum.
Both supporters and the
opposition recognize
the powerful voting bloc
of the African American
community
and they use
African American spokespeople.
Because what we are
seeing is that
countless thousands of
Marylanders around the state
want to see marriage
go on the ballot,
but they also want to see it
defined and upheld
between one man
and one woman.
[Cheering]
[Singing] [Fingers snap]
Sometimes
don't fall
next to the dream
baby
Ooh ooh ooh ooh ooh
ooh! ooh! [singing ends]
—Focus on developing
constituent youth,
people of faith —-
LETTMAN—HICKS: Maryland's
ballot initiative,
in regards
to marriage equality,
is going to require
a lot of education.
It's going to require
a lot of outreach
within the
black community.
—One of the questions
in 2004, when Georgia
was trying to pass
this amendment
and we completely got lost and
it was embarrassing, really —-
I did hear from a lot
of black gay people
who felt that marriage was not
their number—one priority
and it kind of stopped me,
like, you know,
"What are you not understanding,
what we need to do."
So we do need to have
a message out there again
to people who don't understand
why they can't get married
or why they should get married
and to understand
those thousand rights
that we get deprived.
—But you can't argue
with them
because they'll go
straight into
economics, education,
—HeaIth, voting.
employment, and health,
and those things, to them —-
their argument is those
are more important to me
than you telling me I have to
go tell this white man
that we are interested
in getting married.
When people say those things,
"It's not a black issue,"
we have to stop them
from saying that,
that maybe it's not your issue,
but, as a community,
it is our issue because
there are lots of people
in our community who want
to engage in gay marriage.
I agree with both of you.
The one thing I would say
about that is that riding
the bus in Montgomery in 1955
could not have been everyone's
top issue, either —-
—MAN: That's true.
But they understood the bigger
issue in the macrocosm, that...
It was one.
It wasn't the only one.
It certainly wasn't
the most important issue,
but it was the issue
that carried the day.
So, before you guys
head out,
does anybody else
have any questions?
Who's a first—timer?
—MAN: You're kidding me.
Yeah! That's right!
This is going to be
really fun, guys.
I know you've never
done this before.
It's going to be a lot of fun.
You are identifying supporters.
You are getting people
to vote for this bill.
So we know that, if we don't
reach out to these people,
who's going to
reach out to these people?
MAN: Nobody.
—Oh, no, the other side.
No. Opposition.
So it's important
that we let them know
what's going on
and how to vote.
I wanted to just talk
about clipboard control.
You want to keep your
clipboard to your side
and you want to keep
at least a foot space
between you and the person.
You don't want the person
to open the door
and you're right here.
That's not
very welcoming.
So I want everybody
to just take
a deep breath —-
and, yeah,
let's get riled up!
It's going to be a great day.
Right, guys?!
Yeah—eah—eah!
—[Cheering]
Let's go!
That's what's up, man. This is
my righteous man over here.
—Okay, are you
registered to vote?
Nah.
TAYLOR—HUGHES: How old are you?
-21.
All right, you got to
get registered to vote.
We got to get you
registered to vote.
MASTER: Okay.
Why? What's up?
That's not cool.
—What made you be gay?
TAYLOR—HUGHES: That's what's up.
—So what made you be straight?
What made you be gay?
—What made you be straight?
TAYLOR—HUGHES: The same thing
that made you be straight.
Same thing.
—You can't answer
that question —-
[Laughter]
I used to not have
the same rights as you,
but I know that, because
a black man, like yourself,
stood up for a woman like me,
I know that I got
the same opportunities,
so you, as a black man,
have the opportunity
to stand up for somebody else.
Whether you're gay or not,
these are your brothers
and sisters out here and
they need you to represent.
Who is you to tell somebody
who they can't have sex with,
who they can't be with?
They ain't got that power.
Nobody has that power,
to say you can't marry
that young lady.
Who has that power?
Nobody.
—But you know what?
Our state has put the power
in your hands
and so what we need you
to do is vote for it.
You're going to vote for 6.
—I got you.
Okay? Vote for 6.
—Do y'all need
community service hours?
—Yeah.
You do? All right, y'all
can always volunteer with us
and get community service hours.
Y'all wanna do that?
We feed you,
bring you pizza.
—Prince George's County
will be
probably one of the most
important counties
because it's such a centralized
location of black people.
It is the wealthiest
predominantly black county
in the entire country.
It's a really, really nice
part of Maryland
that people just don't
see too much of.
I mean, this is
the black suburbs.
We are the only state where
a ballot initiative
has been posed, thus far,
where black people can make
a significant impact on
the outcome of the election.
It's mostly Democratic, however,
it's very socially conservative.
I mean, we have a very,
very large
and very politically active
church community here
and there will certainly be
a lot of campaign efforts
to reach out and to polarize
this community
around the issue
of marriage equality.
—This is not
a civil rights act.
MAN: Honk your horn!
Honk your horn
if you believe!
—[Honk—honk]
No same—sex marriage
in the state of Maryland!
—Sitting right there
for us
to make sure we win
on November 6th.
Look at that map, 32 times
where it's gone before
the vote of people.
It has not lost yet.
—One of the things that
the black community
is saying,
the ones that are in favor
of same—sex marriage,
is that this is the human-
rights issue of our time.
Can you talk
about that, please?
The way I look at civil rights,
in that order, is
discrimination is based
on something
that I had no control over.
I had no control over the fact
that God made me black
and I had no control over
the fact that God
made me a female, so,
if you discriminate against me
on those bases,
but being gay and lesbian,
to my way of thinking,
is something you chose to do.
I didn't choose to be
black or female.
So that's the way
I handle that.
I don't think it's
a civil rights issue.
[Applause]
I'll let y'all answers
these questions. Good.
Look at that smoke.
Finish that in the oven.
—Oh, wow.
You know Darnell —-
no beef and pork mix over here.
—Are you kidding me?
Whatever.
Yeah, so respect
everybody around here.
—Yeah, you do.
My husband has just retired
from active duty,
United States Air Force,
after 25 [sigh] just
amazing years of service
to the United States
Air Force.
We have all of his aunties
and cousins in there,
cooking all the other
exceptional dishes.
—Yeah. Good—oId
Southern food.
I'm making some
potato salad
and I'm going to do
some jambalaya.
I'm making some
buttermilk cornbread,
some mac 'n' cheese,
fried corn,
and candied yams the aunties
are supposed to make.
I didn't hear that.
You put everybody out the
kitchen, remember?
She put everybody
out the kitchen.
I came down from
Mason, Tennessee.
I'm his auntie.
Annie Whitmore.
Mrs. Annie Whitmore.
My maiden name is Beloit.
—Auntie, this morning,
you were talking to me
about your granddaughter,
when we first
brought up this conversation.
—Uh—huh.
How old is she?
—She's 24.
24?
—Uh—huh.
And how long ago
did she come out to you?
—It'II be
5 years in —-
AUNTIE: Oh, that's when she
got out of high school.
—August.
No, July.
You remember
the date, huh?
Yeah.
She emailed me
and she was telling me
that "Granny, I wanted
to tell you this
before anybody else."
It hurt, because I'm from
a family that used to tell us
[sniffIe] all gay people were
going to go to hell, you know?
And that's what
we was believing.
But, as I grow older
and got a really personal
relationship with God,
I understand that that ain't
for me, to judge her,
so I told her, I said "Tika,
I don't care which way you go.
I said "Grandma
gonna love you."
So,
I hope that my family —-
I don't really know
if my family
really accept her.
D0 y'all?
—Yeah!
[Laughter]
Yeah, the barbecue will be
all right, Dennis.
[Laughter]
We don't socialize around
women when they have
their conversations.
Most of the time,
men have their conversation
around other men.
The funny thing is,
back when I was dating,
that ladies —-
—Long time ago.
Long, long, long time ago.
[Laughs]
—I'II just say it
like this —-
that they would bring
a gay friend as a litmus test
to say ''All right,
is he on the downIow?"
I was like
"What's this all about?"
Most of us, the black males
that do accept it,
accept it in the context
of a vice.
You know,
everybody has vices.
As long as it's
not harmful to me,
you can keep your vice
to yourself, you know,
and it's no harm to me,
we can deal with it.
To be honest with you,
if you want to say
"scare" or "homophobia",
it's not how
the gay person
may influence me, it's how they
may influence my offspring,
that have not yet developed
their systems of beliefs.
Being gay
is not contagious.
—Oh, I know it's not.
I'm just saying.
And no one can make
a child gay.
The heterosexual influence,
especially in this culture
and society,
is a million times stronger
than the homosexual influence
and so your child
being influenced
by a homosexual experience,
at some point,
and then that one
experience overpowering
all the other experiences
that they've seen
from a heterosexual perspective,
it would have to be —-
the odds are just,
you know, enormous.
I'm not sure that
that's enough to force —-
and I will say "force" —-
to force us to accept
their belief.
—WeII, anytime you're
talking about change,
there has to be something
to move it.
—Yeah, I'm just
saying, well,
what's the argument
that I should?
It could be your brother.
It could be your sister.
—And that's supposed to
make it acceptable to me?
I know there's probably
still a lot of white folks
out here today that work
with black folks,
work with people of color,
who can't stand them,
deep down inside.
"Oh, my God! I just don't
like them [gasp]"
but they are in line
with those civil rights.
Everyone is going along
with the world
and saying this is okay.
It's not okay.
The Bible doesn't change.
It stays the same.
The world may change,
but I'm not willing
to change with the world.
—Let me ask you a question.
In the Bible,
there's so many things
that we can say.
Divorce is reprehensible
in the Bible.
Women are to be seen
and not heard.
Black people are supposed
to be slaves.
All of that's
in the Bible.
I cannot take God
out of my equation.
I cannot.
—I'm not telling you to take
it out of your equation.
I cannot take it out
of my conversation
because God
do not make lesbians.
He —— When —-
There's genders.
—Gender identity
and sexual orientation
is two different issues.
—Okay, yeah, but genders,
I'ma tell you
how they may become
like that.
Let me finish because I
certainly did not interrupt you.
—We're going to have the
right to agree to disagree.
Yes. But let me finish.
—Okay, go ahead. You're right.
So the reality is that,
when you —-
It's good. We'll take
this up later, but —-
MAN: Food ready?
—The food's ready, so.
WOMAN:
Thank you very much.
—HeaIthy conversation.
Eh, but do I get a hug?
I love you.
—There is going to
always be
Michelles in the world.
I won't judge her
and I won't allow her
to judge my community.
And as long as there's fewer
and fewer of those people,
my work is done.
—We come, 0 God,
to just tell you thank you,
O God.
Thank you, O God,
for everyone
that's standing around
in this circle, Father.
Thank you, O God,
for the hands
that prepared this food for us.
—Thank you.
Thank you, O God, that they
might enjoy the privilege
that we enjoy.
—Amen!
WOMAN: Hallelujah!
Whoo—hoo!
—[AppIause]
[Singing] It ain't
necessarily so
it ain't necessarily
so
The things
that you're liable
to read in the Bible
it ain't
necessarily so [Singing ends]
—Why doesn't the
African American community
embrace LGBT equality?
It's systemic
within its culture.
Sexuality in the African
American community is taboo.
We don't discuss it,
in any form.
I think it goes
way back to slavery.
I mean, we were beaten,
we were raped,
we were, you know,
considered
less than human.
I think it became our own form
of "Don't Ask, Don't Tell".
WOMAN: Get the ball!
Get the ball!
—Whoops!
Not again! Not again!
Here you go.
I understand uniquely
our history.
I struggle
and some of the things
that actually took place
to me and to my family
and where they have come from,
but I can't equate that struggle
to what's going on today.
When you're talking
about redefining marriage,
you're talking about
"Who has been the hardest hit
in the issue of family?"
and it is consistently,
on every measurement that we
look at across our country,
the African American
community.
Even when African Americans
were dealing with slavery,
there were men and women
who were married in that time,
couldn't get married
in front of others,
but got married, you know,
in the back room, in a barn,
or wherever else,
and they jumped the broom.
But guess what.
They were married
and sometimes they were
separated and sold
to break down that family.
And so what helped them
get through it
is their strong faith.
—We know what God's words say.
Regardless of what laws
they may write, what
public policy may suggest —-
McCOY: But there is a concept
about what God thinks
about marriage, is in there,
and the union
of one man and one woman.
What He's saying is
lifestyles that are
not productive
and fruitful
and how he designed you
is wrong.
—The father's role
and responsibility
to set —-
We never had these
"Father Knows Best"—,
"Leave It to Beaver"—type
families.
Often, in our families,
we had some of our kids
stayed with our sister
and, some of them,
the grandmother
raised them.
But, yet, in spite
of all of the things
that we have experienced,
we still managed to eke out
a way to have family,
in interesting
and extended ways.
I believe there is a lot in
the African American experience
that same—gender families
can draw from:
how to have a family
when you are marginalized.
Coming from a very, very, very
Christian foster family,
it was always like "That's
not what the Bible says"
or, you know, like
"Do you see anybody else
walking around like that?
You know, you're not going to
embarrass me when we go out."
I went to high school with one
of my church members‘ nieces
because I was really big
into my church
and so she went back
and told her aunt
that I was gay and her aunt
pulled me into a closet
and told me the devil
was trying to use me
MAN: Oh, wow.
—To take away like my gifts.
And so then I went into
a deep depression and —-
—Little did she know, when
she pulled you out the closet,
she was literally pulling
you out of the closet.
—She was trying to pull me in.
I had come out.
She wanted me back in
and it didn't go too well.
I mean, I was outed
to my entire church.
They really wouldn't
let me participate
in certain things, unless
I like repudiated my gay,
and I wasn't able to do that
and so I lost a family
that I had spent
12 or 13 years creating
and I've never
found it again.
Identifying as a Christian now
became a really big struggle
because I had to overcome
that burden of
"I am worthy and I am
worthy of God's love
and I am worthy of
being whole and complete."
People give up religion.
They give up when they say
"God doesn't love you
as you are and God didn't
make you as you are."
Then to hell
with that God, then.
Then I'm going to love me
and I'm going to find
people who do love me.
MAN: Mm.
[Singing starts] I am not wor...
...thy
of all these
‘ bles...
...sings
Give me
a clean heart [Singing ends]
I'm on a spiritual
journey, myself.
Sometimes you got to get
out of your advocacy
and look at your heart,
yourself, and your spirit
and focus on yourself
when you have been put
in a position to lead.
I strongly believe
in a strong spiritual home
and a strong
spiritual foundation
and believe
in being surrounded
by spiritual leaders
in a way that
keeps me grounded.
[Singing starts] I may
serve
you [Singing ends]
—You know, when we think
about our faith,
the thing, you know,
at root,
that we think about
is not only
Christ sacrificing himself
on our behalf,
but it's also
the Golden Rule, you know:
"Treat others the way
you'd want to be treated."
For me, personally,
it is important for me
to go ahead and affirm
that I think same—sex couples
should be able to get married.
The president's affirmation
of marriage equaIity's impact
on the ballot initiative being
pursued in the state of Maryland
is up for grabs.
The amount of time
it takes
for people to evolve,
just like the president,
I don't know
if enough time is available,
but, at a minimum,
people will at least
start talking about it
in a meaningful,
deliberate way.
So what's going on,
Morgan State?!
—[Cheering]
We at the NAACP,
for 103 years,
have made it clear
that we will not tolerate
discrimination, in any form:
as a race, as a gender,
as a sexual orientation.
Two people love
each other.
The state has no right,
getting in the way.
I'm joined today by colleagues
from around the country
to announce our support for the
Civil Marriage Protection Act
in the state of Maryland.
There are a range of personal
and theological views
about same—sex marriage
within this group
and every group of clergy,
and, yet, we stand united
in the conviction
that the government
has an obligation
to protect every person
and every family
equally under the law,
without the imposition
of religious dogma.
I've decided to come out
in support
of civil marriage
protection
because I just thought
it was very dangerous
and very hypocritical
to want to legislate
some areas of the Bible
and not others.
It changed the attitudes,
for people to see
a pastor of a traditional
black Baptist church
of 8,000 members
come out unashamedly
and unapologetically
in favor of
marriage equality.
—The black church was
a place to go when we had
no place else to go.
It was a place to meet when
we had no place else to meet.
The leader of the church was
a relatively independent person.
He didn't work for white people.
He worked for the church.
And he was a figure
of some importance
because he spoke
to these people
every Sunday morning.
He was a guide,
a moral leader, and so on.
You looked to him for some
guidance on how to behave,
how to be a person.
Our organizing, during
the Civil Rights movement,
often took place
in the churches.
It was the facilities
that we had control over,
so there's a natural
relationship between the clergy,
the church, and the
Civil Rights movement.
—It has historically been
the center of education
and information.
If someone was ill,
if a woman had just had a baby,
if someone died in the family,
we had, in that organization,
the black church,
people on the ready
to respond
to those families.
So we're talking
about community;
we're talking about
village,
a sense of belonging,
a sense of
self—worth and value.
You could go to a job
and they'd call you "boy"
or they'd call you "Jim"
and then you come to
your church and your name is
Deacon James Jones
and you sit in a seat
up in the front
with the trustees
and you drive
your Chevrolet to church
and you wear your suit
and you have a place
of prominence
that the world
doesn't give.
But the end result
of that is,
in order, oftentimes, for people
who have been trampled upon
to feel powerful,
there's a need to trample
upon someone else.
JACKSON: Don't let people get
you talking about gay rights.
This is not about
a gay right.
There's a difference between
civil rights and sacred rights.
—[Cheering]
[Applause]
—What is happening is
a minority is attempting
to impose its will
on the majority.
Time and time again,
these out—of—controI radicals
go back
to the dusty pages
of the Constitution
and, somehow, in fine print,
they find a right
for same—sex marriage.
Honey, it's not in there.
It's never been written
in the Constitution.
[Cheering]
—It's not going to be tolerated.
[Applause]
WOMAN: Yay, God!
—Yes, Lord!
JACKSON: Let freedom ring.
—[Cheering]
Let freedom ring
as He let our voices
be heard!
God bless you.
[Cheering and applause]
A lot of memories.
A Iot of —-
My father, up there,
you know,
every Sunday,
playing that organ.
Me, playing the drums.
Actually,
it used to be down here.
I used to look up at my dad
while I was playing.
My mother, in the stands,
you know, coming down to sing.
Services would typically last —-
at my father's church,
it can go from 11:30
to 4:30 or 5:00.
I thank God
for my foundation.
I've always called myself
an artist, from day one.
—Praise the Lord, everybody!
—[Cheering and applause]
God is good!
—God is good!
Ladies and gentlemen,
let me bring
to the stage right now one of
the most anointed young men
in our country,
in our universe.
He's ready to put
a choke hold on the devil!
He's ready
to tell the world
"I do this
in the name of Jesus!"
I introduce the one,
the only,
Tonex!
—Between
'98 and 2000,
I was all the rage
and buzz.
"Pronounced Toe—Nay" came out.
People went bananas.
'02 came around,
I got 6 Stellar nominations
and one win.
[Sinnging starts] Toe—nay
represent [Singing ends]
That's when
the touring began.
And somebody else,
for the first time,
had to take over the choir
at my father's church
and that was new.
When "Out the Box" came out,
particularly the song
"Lord Make Me over",
it debuted at number 1
and stayed there for 3 weeks.
[Singing starts] Jesus healed
my open wounds
I just want [Singing ends]
My father got
the Billboard magazine
and I remember him
opening that up.
[Singing] Father,
I let you down
He looked at me and he said
"You did it, bub!
You did it." He always
used to call me "bub".
I just smiled because
it was the first time
I really felt like my dad
validated me.
Two months later,
he was dead.
[Singing starts] Wash me
and make me whole
Ohh! [Singing ends]
Little by little,
I started feeling this thing
in the back
of my head like
"You know what time
it is, right?"
I was getting tired
of playing these games.
I didn't tell
anyone, but,
my music started changing
a little bit.
People started questioning.
I came out with an EP
called "Rainbow".
People were like "What
the hell does that mean?"
[Laughs]
So, piece by piece,
I started revealing things.
[Singing starts] Rainbow
(just taste it)
rainbow [Singing ends]
You know, you have to know
that you're controversial.
Yeah.
—You've been known
to wear a boa.
Mm—hmm.
—You have been known to, uh,
wear makeup.
—Mm—hmm.
So have you struggled
with homosexuality?
Not struggled.
It wasn't a struggle.
—Is being
attracted to men
under control?
"Under control"?
You said you were attracted
to men, at one point.
Am. Mm—hmm.
So, do you practice?
Like piano?
—HomosexuaIity.
I don't know how to put that.
[Laughs]
—I'm trying to put it —-
Are you waiting for
"deliverance"
from being attracted
to men?
I'm not sure that's something
I have to be delivered from.
So everyone can just
breathe and relax
on your show
and say "Tonex said yes,
he's attracted to men.
Yes, he has experienced
gay sex before.
But that's the least
of who this man of God is."
[Singing] Make me over, Lord
(make me over again)
After the Lexi
interview came out,
the gospel community,
the church community,
faith—based
community, turned.
I think a lot ofthem
already knew.
I told the truth so they
couldn't make it a scandal.
When you hide shit,
they'll find it,
especially in this
information age.
[Singing] Jesus healed
—[sobbing] Our children
are being lost.
But they're being lost
in the house.
They're being
lost in the house.
And they're being turned
by people
in their generation.
We talk about
the Tonex situation
and it is only turning
their hearts
further away from God
and making them believe that
such conversation is ''real''
when it is not real!
—Amen!
[Applause]
It is not real!
God didn't call
this generation
to such perversion!
[Singing starts] Ahhh!
Ohhhhhhhhhhhhh!
(Make me over)
(Lord, make me over)
Make me over
(make me over again)
I'm tired of myself,
I'm tired of my evil ways
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
(make me over again)
Every day is the same,
time is the same
—thing is the same
(make me over again)
And I'm ready
for change, Lord
create in me
a clean heart
(Woh) no
(Oh woh) Is anybody
sick and tired
of themselves, yeah?
(Oh oh oh)
Oh oh oh oh oh, oh!
ohh oh ahhhh! [Singing ends]
—Can I give Tonex
a quick 3 snaps
for his bravery
in speaking truth
to his power, right?
Because he spoke to what
a lot of people
in the black church,
who are artists,
who are well—known people,
they are ashamed
or they are so otherized that
they dare not speak its name
and so I would like
to give him props for that.
We all know that there are tons
of black gay men in the church
who are singing
—[Laughter]
and who are directing
the choirs,
and what have you,
preaching.
Like, I mean, I love his music
and I think there are
so many talented
black gay men like him,
you know, who look up
to him, you know,
that we just need
to support
and the black church
needs to support, too.
[Singing starts] Start all over,
start all over
(You're gonna start all over)
start all over again [Singing ends]
Today, I'm going to see
my foster mother,
aka Aunt Toni.
Anytime I go see her, you know,
she asks what I'm doing,
but I know she doesn't
kind of want to know.
You know, I'm not going to
tell her, you know,
"I've been dating this girl
and they're someone
I really Iike" and I'm not
going to tell her, you know,
"Oh, I'm making sure that
gay people have rights
and they can get married
and asking churches
to support them."
You know, that's not something
I want to really bring up,
especially in a phone
conversation, with her.
I'm hoping that, today,
we can start fresh
and I hope that I can ask
for her acceptance.
Not tolerance,
but acceptance,
and, hopefully, work
on our relationship.
Hey, Aunt Toni.
—Hey. Good morning.
How are you?
I'm good. How are you?
—Good, good.
Good, good. Hey, little man.
Hey, little man.
C'mere. Anh!
You remember who I am?
What's my name?
—Karess.
Yes! What is it?
Auntie Karess.
Say it.
—Auntie Karess.
Auntie Karess. Mm!
I know you're a woman of God
and that like
you've always been
a woman of God
and you're so faithful
to your religion like
and I respect that.
And like I know,
growing up like
it was like very hard
because I pushed back a lot,
when it came back
to religion, and like
especially the gay thing,
we never really talked about.
I just want to know like
how you feel about that
and how you feel about me
working on these bills
to pass like gay rights.
I know I don't talk
to you that often
because I know
that you're very busy
and, as far as your lifestyle,
is your lifestyle.
I know, whatever
choice that you make,
you're making
the right choice.
—Do you honestly believe
it's a choice?
Do you honestly believe that
I choose to be hated
and I choose to —-
to be something that...?
—Do you choose to?
I believe that you —-
—[Boy speaks]
I believe that —-
I believe some people
are born that way.
—Do you believe
I was born that way?
I don't know.
I can't answer that.
I really, honestly don't know.
It's not a choice for me.
It's who I am and like I've
consistently been this person.
Even when I was a child,
I wore boys‘ clothing.
—No, forget
boys‘ clothing.
But I've been gay.
—How did you know
that you was gay?
I've known since
I was like four.
—Are you serious?
Yeah. This isn't
a lifestyle.
My sexual orientation
is who I am.
I've always been this way
and I always wanted
to talk to you about it.
Even what I'm doing
is against your religion.
—I love you
unconditionally.
Like I said, you're going to
do what you want to do.
You're grown.
Even if you wasn't grown,
you still was gonna do
what you wanna do.
—Part of the reason
why I moved so far away:
because I felt like
I couldn't be myself,
because I thought that
I would shame you.
—You thought
you would shame me?
Oh, Karess.
—[SniffIe]
Please stop crying.
—No, it was just really
important to me
You didn't shame me.
—to not make you mad.
You didn't make me mad
and you didn't shame me.
I'm proud of you.
Very proud of you.
But I still want some
grandbabies. [laughs]
—You're going to get
some grandbabies.
You're going to
get some grandbabies.
—All right.
[SniffIe] Just when I get
the money for them.
[ChuckIe]
—Okay.
There's always been this debate
around the clobber passages,
you know, the 5 to 6
passages of the Bible,
and deconstructing what they
say about homosexuality.
What I see
in scripture are
condemnations of
acts of violence,
of sexual violence,
and abuse in Romans
and Corin.
In Sodom and Gomorrah,
for example.
And I just have
personally not seen
any explicit condemnations
of same—gender love.
What's killing us right now
is that those are
the conversations that
are not taking place.
—And what I'm worried about is:
by lack of having
those conversations,
are we being naive,
to think that those
3 to 5 pastors,
the vocal minority,
don't have an influence?
Because those same
3 to 5 pastors
had signature drives and I
heard, in certain churches,
those lines were wrapped
around the church,
with people signing
those petitions.
So when you go unchallenged,
what is going to
stop those people from going
into the ballot booth
and voting against
marriage equality?
Yes, ma'am.
—Can you give me an estimate
of the number of people
all these churches represent?
—[Discussing]
That's a good question.
—That's
a good question.
I'm going to
collectively say —-
just collectively,
because you have so many
representations
of groups of people
and presidents of organizations,
and stuff like that —-
I'll easily say
half a million people.
Easily say
half a million.
You know, I wish I could
calculate, but look here —-
I hope we represent 1.6 million
votes on November 6.
[Laughter]
Head west
on Greenbelt Road.
So my mom earIy—voted.
Everyone in my family's
already voted
and my mom, she just didn't
answer Question 6.
l was hurt.
That you say you want me
to be happy,
but you can't vote
to support my happiness.
And then, after
thinking about it,
it occurred to me that maybe
she's just not there yet.
[Knocking]
—We're stopping by today
to see if you support
marriage equality
for gay and lesbian couples.
—No.
Okay, sir,
would you mind —-
Do you support marriage
equality here in Maryland?
—No.
Okay. Would you mind saying
why you don't support it?
You know President Obama
came out in support
of marriage equality.
Well, thank you so much
for your time.
Have a good day.
—Good day to you.
Make sure, on Tuesday, you take
your soul to the polls. Amen?
Make sure you do that.
I believe this election
is going to be
a referendum on the church.
It's going to be a referendum
on black preachers.
We've got to choose
between the politics
of inclusion [inhale],
on the one hand,
or the politics of exclusion
[inhale], on the other hand.
We are stronger,
as a society [inhale],
when people of all backgrounds
[inhale], all opinions [inhale],
all races, all colors,
all religions,
all sexual orientations,
get equal treatment
under the law.
[Applause]
[Singing starts] —This land is your land
this land is
my land [Singing ends]
—I'm very anxious
to just get out there
and knock out this last day,
this final day
that I've been working for
for years.
The adrenaline in me right now
is just on a million. [chuckle]
I'm just ready to go
knock this day out.
I'm ready for this day
to be over with.
I'm ready to win.
I'm ready to make history.
[sigh] I'm just ready.
—No matter the outcome
of this election,
the conversation
has started
and that's what's
the most rewarding.
Really educating people
that this is another part
of the narrative
of the black family,
that hasn't been
talked about
in a healthy,
constructive manner.
I'm pretty sure
we'll do it this time.
I think Maryland's
going to pull through.
Marylanders are going to
vote from their gut
and it's going to happen.
—Well, at this point,
everybody's done
what they've done.
Democracy prevails,
so everybody gets a chance
to have their say
in the public square.
—We hope you'll support
Question 6 on marriage equality.
That's all right, there, sir.
Thank you, though.
Appreciate it.
—Yeah. Thank you.
[Laughs]
—Good morning.
Nah, I just noticed
how they have one
with the big ol' Michelle Obama
face on there.
Here we go, saying
"This is a black issue."
It has to be
all black people, huh?
It's amazing.
You try and take
black people
like we don't have
any sense.
There's a lot of people
to think
on the issue
and so they're going to have
different opinions,
which is what
democracy's about.
No problem. Take care.
—[Musical ringtone]
Take a right, right turn
onto county road.
[Musical ringtone]
—This is ridiculous right now.
I need an assistant!
I mean, there's a lot at stake
here, if we don't win.
I mean, the governor
really pushed for this bill,
the black community
stepped up,
and then,
there's just the couples
who have been trying
to get married for years,
that, you know, they took off
from work days to testify.
Even if we win,
we're not going to stop.
We're going to keep pushing
for, you know, adoption laws.
We're going to
start pushing
for more
antidiscrimination laws.
So, I mean, no matter what,
win or lose, it's not over.
I can't believe they got
this place set up like this.
I can't even believe that
we have this much democracy
going on in this
little cuI—de—sac.
How are two consenting adults
violating your household,
your love,
your individualism,
because they've made
a commitment to each other?
What's the number—one thing
been hurting
the African American community?
It's the family.
You saying "Well, now,
what I want to do is now say
let me redefine the family."
Vote for Question 6.
Vote fairness and equality
for all Maryland families.
Remember to vote
for Question 6!
What do you say after
they say
"I already voted"?
—"Thank you."
''Tell your friends
and family members
to vote for
marriage equality."
You know this already.
Our volunteers, you know,
I'm trying to rev them up,
but, I mean, they've been
out here since 6:30 am,
so, you know,
they're kind of tired.
I need you to act like this is
something you care about.
Do you care about this?
—Yes.
How long you been doing this?
—A year.
Act like it.
All righty. Well.
—I'm catching the news,
early polling, which is, so far,
they haven't gotten out, yet.
—That's right, Denise,
those opponents are
the Maryland
Family Alliance.
They want to stop history
from being made.
They don't want
Question 6 passed.
They don't want to see
same—sex marriage in Maryland.
They believe that it is
a threat to marriage,
in general,
in the state.
Derek McCoy leads
this organization out here.
About 700 people
have been invited
to come out here
to this event tonight.
We'll see what happens.
—EarIy polls, they were up,
and we've closed that gap.
MAN: Well,
they got 49-51.
—What's that again?
They haven't updated this
for quite some time.
Of course,
it depends on
how the vote turns out,
so a few minutes ago —-
—Fingers crossed.
We're looking at mostly
early—voting numbers
with a small number of votes
that were cast today
and it's up, statewide,
by about 8 points,
by about 54-46.
It's 50-50
in Baltimore County.
It's up huge
in Montgomery County
and it's holding its own
in Prince George's.
69% of people
support gay marriage.
Let's show
Question 6 again.
All the other questions
are done.
-3 minutes.
—I got to go back.
Maryland —— historic moment —-
has approved same—sex marriage.
Question number 6 in Maryland,
that is a "yes".
We are standing here
as equal citizens.
[Cheering]
[Crying]
—This is it.
Oh, my gosh.
Yes, thank you so much.
—Yeah—eah—eah!
Yeah!
[clapping]
—Good job, girl.
All right, Candace, yes!
—[Laughs]
C'mere, Qui.
Do I have to?
—No, you don't.
[ChuckIe]
—[Crying]
Oh, man,
God bless y'all.
—Where's my mother?
Mom!
[Laughter]
—Yeah—eah!
Yes!
Yes, we can!
[Laughter]
[Snifflej
—We love you.
We love you.
—I love this.
The Maryland
Marriage Alliance,
those responsible for getting
Question 6 on the ballot,
are not willing
to concede.
Derek McCoy joins us.
Those numbers have widened
a little bit.
At this point,
what's your decision now?
—Well, we're just
not conceding, as of yet.
We just want to make sure that
everything's fully counted
and that the absentee
ballots are counted
and we just understand
what's going on.
So it's real close and we
knew it was going to be
a real close race
and so we just want
to make sure that's done,
first.
—If the majority
is allowed
to have its way,
the minority will never
have its rights.
We fought. We won.
We're still winning.
As we continue,
state—by—state,
by—state—by—state,
church—by—church,
denomination-
by—denomination,
we will see that this last,
in so many ways,
bastion of prejudice
and hatred will also fall.
I'm feeling wonderful.
I'm feeling great.
I'm feeling —— this is the
happiest day of my life.
I have a president who
supports me.
I have a state
who supports me.
I have a cause that
I worked very hard for
and I'm successful.
I mean, in my mind,
it's just like ''Tell me
what I can't do right now."
This country is going to
know what it means
for equality for all.
—[Singing starts]We are the sheep
of another fold
then we must reach out
to all souls
Our wool is black
but not
our souls
Jesus will never
let you go
There is a young man
taking pills [Singing ends]
—We,
the people,
declare, today, that
the most evident of truths,
that all of us
are created equal,
is the star
that guides us still,
just as it guided
our forebearers
through Seneca Falls
and Selma and Stonewall,
just as it guided all those
men and women, sung and unsung,
who left footprints
along this great Mall
to hear a preacher say
that we cannot walk
alone...
Our journey
is not complete
until our gay
brothers and sisters
are treated like anyone else
under the law.
For, if we are truly
created equal,
then, surely, the love
we commit to one another
must be equal as well.
[Cheering and applause]
—[Singing starts] The spirit of fear
Hey!
(We are the sheep)
(of another fold) We are the
sheep of another fold, yeah
(Then we must reach out)
Jesus said
(to all souls)
we must call out to them
(Our wool is black)
Go back and check your Bible
(but not our souls)
‘cause Jesus said I
(Jesus will never)
I, I
I refuse to let
one sheep go astray
(We are the sheep)
But I
(of another fold)
I will go out to him
(Then we must reach out)
It's no coincidence
(to all souls)
all these suicides
because the enemy knows
that we are the most prophetic
we are the most anointed
and he wants to take us
outta here
But religion
religion has
no power for you
Intimidation
has no power for you
(Then we must reach out)
I want you to touch
your neighbor real quick
and tell ‘em this
tell them
the drought is over!
(The drought is over)
Yes, it is
Tell ‘em one more time
the drought is over!
(The drought is over)
yes, it is
Tell ‘em the
drou...ght
(the drought is over)
the drought,
the drought is over
(the drought is over)
Oh——
comin'
(the drought is over) I can
see the clouds in the sky!
There's a brand—new
feeling in the air
(the drought is over)
you can feel it in the air
Chains are being
broken
(they're being
broken)
shackles of
despondency, mm
(they're being broken)
shackles of depression
shackles of confusion
(they're being broken)
loose here
I know you feel
the power of God's love
(Can you feel it?)
in your living room
You feel the power of God's
love, hey (Can you feel it?)
Pray up in your car
(Can you feel it?)
You don't have to take
yourself outta here, mnh—mnh [Sing ends]